Add documentation for CMS V2 app (#831)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/app-store/apps/cms.mdx

---
title: CMS
sidebar_position: 4
---

# CMS

:::note V2 version
This document describes the v2 version of the app. The v1 version is deprecated and will be removed in the future.
:::

## Overview

_CMS_ is a Saleor app that allows one-direction synchronization of Saleor products into supported CMS platforms. Here are the currently available platforms:

- [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/)
- [Strapi](https://strapi.io/)
- [DatoCMS](https://www.datocms.com/)

:::note Missing integrations?
We listen to the community's voice. Let us know if you miss any integration by [filling out a survey](https://saleor.typeform.com/to/ecR2msLk?typeform-source=apps.staging.saleor.io)
:::

The app is flexible and allows you to configure multiple configurations of multiple providers and assign them per channel.

:::caution

> To successfully configure the CMMS App, you must have an account with one of the supported CMS platforms.

Reviewer: **typo** & **polish**:

```suggestion
To successfully configure the CMS App, you must have an account with a supported CMS platform.
```

:::

## Main assumptions

- The app is unidirectional. It means it will only send product updates from Saleor to the CMS platform. If you change data in the CMS, it will not be reflected in Saleor.

> - The app considers [Product Variant](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/api-reference/products/objects/product-variant) as a main entity that is synchronized. Every created item in the CMS will be single, unique variant of the product.

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
- The app considers [Product Variant](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/api-reference/products/objects/product-variant) as a main synchronized entity. Every created item in the CMS will be a single, unique variant of the product.
```

- The app requires you to create a model in the CMS platform, but you can map Saleor product fields to the CMS fields.

> - The app will synchronize product variants on the following events:

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking)**: link to asynchronous events documentation to provide context about what type of events we mean.

```suggestion
- The app will synchronize product variants on the following [events](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/asynchronous-webhooks):
```

  - Product updated
  - Product variant created
  - Product variant updated

>   - Product variant deleted

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking)**: For searchability purposes, I would change the webhook name spelling to upper snake case like [here](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/api-reference/webhooks/enums/webhook-event-type-async-enum#values).

- If the CMS platform allows that, the App will create an item with an ID that equals Saleor's product variant ID. If not, it will reference the product by mapped variant id field.

## Synchronized fields

The app will synchronize the following fields:

- Variant id
- Variant name
- Variant channels availability and prices
- Product id
- Product name
- Product slug

That means _variant id_ field should be unique among synchronized product variants. Other fields may be the same among variants.

:::caution
Most CMS platform allows setting **UNIQUE** constraint/validation on some fields. **It's highly recommended** to set this attribute on Variant ID field.

If the attribute is not set, the App will not guarantee that duplicates will not be created.
:::

## Glossary

The app uses the following terms:

### Provider

The provider is a CMS platform that is supported by the app.

> ### Provider Configuration

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
### Provider configuration
```

Provider configuration is an instance of the configured provider.
Usually, it contains credentials and field mapping. The app allows multiple configurations of the same provider.

For example, you can connect your CMS platform's production and staging setup or have different configurations for each channel.

### Provider-channel connection

The app allows you to connect a provider configuration to the Saleor channel.
Once it happens, product operations in Saleor will automatically send product updates to the provider with chosen configuration.

This step is optional, but you will likely want to connect the provider configuration to the channel.

:::caution Connecting many channels
If you want to connect many channels to the same provider configuration, you must create a separate connection for each channel using the same provider configuration.
:::

### Initial sync/bulk sync

> Once the app is installed and the connection is configured, the App will only be aware of product operations that happen after it was installed.
> 
> To synchronize all the products that were created before the app was installed, you must perform an initial sync.
> 
> Once the connection is configured, the app will allow you to use this connection and scan the entire Saleor database for products and send them to the provider.

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
The app does not automatically synchronize the products that were created before its installation. If you want to import all the Saleor products into your CMS, you must perform an initial sync.

To execute the initial sync, you must have at least one connection configured. You can then use it to scan the entire Saleor database for products and send them to the provider.
```

:::caution Limitation

> At the moment, the App is performing bulk sync on the frontend. That means when this is happening, the App must stay open. Closing the window will stop the operation.

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
At the moment, the App performs bulk sync on the front end. That means when this is happening, the App must stay open. Closing the window will stop the operation.
```

:::

## Configuration

To configure the app, follow the instructions built into the app.

Usually, you will need to perform the following steps:

1. Create a provider configuration for the chosen provider.

> 2. Create a connection of this provider to the selected channel.

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
2. Assign the created configuration to a selected channel.
```

3. Perform an initial sync.
4. Edit or create some product variant to see if it is synchronized with the provider.

### CMS fields setup

> The App allows you to map Saleor product fields to the CMS fields.
> Some providers allow the App to autocomplete available fields. If autocomplete is not available, you must ensure fields are entered without typos.

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
The App allows you to map Saleor product fields to the CMS fields.
Some providers allow the App to fetch and display the available fields in an autocomplete. If autocomplete is unavailable, you must ensure the field names are correct.
```

**suggestion (non-blocking)**:
Also, this section seems a bit bare-bones. I suggest merging it with another section or providing more context (what exactly are we doing here? why does it matter?).

> ## Providers

Reviewer: **thought**: Whatever the purpose if this section is, I don't think the name "Providers" describe it very well. Maybe it should be a sub-section of "Configuration"?

Author: Its more like a feature, not a configuration. I will rephrase it

Author: right, I embedded it inside configuration

### Contentful

> - Fields are autocompleted; you must provide [space ID](https://www.contentful.com/help/find-space-id/) and a [token](https://www.contentful.com/help/personal-access-tokens/).

Reviewer: **polish**: I am wondering about the conjunction of these two sentences. It makes it sound like you need to provide these tokens only for the autocomplete, which I don't think is true.

I believe it is more readable when split up:

```suggestion
- You must provide [space ID](https://www.contentful.com/help/find-space-id/) and a [token](https://www.contentful.com/help/personal-access-tokens/).
- The field names are autocompleted.
```

Author: I will rephrase, suggestion isn't accurate

- Entries will be created with an ID that matches Saleor product variant ID.
- Bulk sync operations are limited to 2 items per second due to Contentful API limitations.
- All fields must be the type of `string/text`, except `channels`, which should be type `json`.

### DatoCMS

> - Fields are autocompleted. You must provide a full-access API token (Content Management API).

Reviewer: **polish**: same as above regarding splitting these two sentences into separate points.

Also, we should be linking to DatoCMS documentation about the API token.

- Entries will be created with IDs generated by DatoCMS. You should set the variant ID field to be unique.
- Bulk sync operations will be rate-limited by DatoCMS client itself.
- All fields must be the type of `string/text`, except `channels`, which should be type `json`.

### Strapi

- Fields are not autocompleted. You must provide an auth token with full access to the product variant entity and API base URL (without `/api` suffix).
- Item type must be plural, eg, `saleor-products` instead `saleor-product`.

> - You must ensure field mapping is correct because there is no autocomplete.

Reviewer: > Fields are not autocomplete.
> ...
> You must ensure field mapping is correct because there is no autocomplete.

**polish**: I believe these two should be together, not the "auth token" bit.

- All fields must be the type of `string/text`, except `channels`, which should be type `json`.

> ## General limitations and assumptions

Reviewer: **suggestion (blocking)**: We have two "assumptions" sections. I suggest turning this one into "Limitations" instead and merging assumptions from here into the "Main assumptions" section.

Author: done, article starts with assumptions, ends with limitation and known issues

- App is unidirectional. Changes in CMS will not be reflected in Saleor.
- Bulk / initial sync runs only on the frontend. This is usually a one-time operation, but the browser must be opened. In case of a connection problem, the operation can fail.
- If **UNIQUE** attribute is not set on the variant ID field in the CMS, there will be no guarantee that duplicates will not be created.
- It's normal to see console network errors during bulk sync. The app is usually trying to create an item in the CMS. Once it faces conflict or rate limit error, it will retry.

> ## Development

Reviewer: **suggestion (blocking)**:

"Development" should go before "Limitations", just like in "Emails and Messages" docs.

Reviewer: I see. In that case, I would put "Limitations" just below the "Assumptions". This way, we give an overview of what the app is and is not right at the beginning.

> To run the Taxes App locally:

Reviewer: **typo (blocking)**:

```suggestion
To run the CMS App locally:
```

1. Follow the [_Setup_ section in the _Development_ article](developer/app-store/development.mdx#setup).
2. Go to the app directory.
3. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`. The `.env` should contain the following variables:

:::info

> Taxes is a Next.js application. If you want to learn more about setting environment variables in Next.js, head over to the [documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

Reviewer: **typo (blocking)**:

```suggestion
CMS is a Next.js application. If you want to learn more about setting environment variables in Next.js, head over to the [documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).
```

- [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/)
- [Strapi](https://strapi.io/)
- [DatoCMS](https://www.datocms.com/)
- [Builder.io](https://www.builder.io/)

:::note Missing integrations?
We listen to the community's voice. Let us know if you miss any integration by [filling out a survey](https://saleor.typeform.com/to/ecR2msLk?typeform-source=apps.staging.saleor.io)
:::

The app is flexible and allows you to configure multiple configurations of multiple providers and assign them per channel.

:::caution

To successfully configure the CMS App, you must have an account with a supported CMS platform.

:::

## Main assumptions

- The app is unidirectional. It means it will only send product updates from Saleor to the CMS platform. If you change data in the CMS, it will not be reflected in Saleor.
- The app considers [Product Variant](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/api-reference/products/objects/product-variant) as a main synchronized entity. Every created item in the CMS will be a single, unique variant of the product.
- The app requires you to create a model in the CMS platform, but you can map Saleor product fields to the CMS fields.

> - The app will synchronize product variants on the following [events](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/asynchronous-webhooks):
>   - PRODUCT_UPDATED
>   - PRODUCT_VARIANT_CREATED
>   - PRODUCT_VARIANT_UPDATED
>   - PRODUCT_VARIANT_DELETED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The app will synchronize product variants on the following [events](https://docs.saleor.io/docs/3.x/developer/extending/apps/asynchronous-webhooks):
  - `PRODUCT_UPDATED`
  - `PRODUCT_VARIANT_CREATED`
  - `PRODUCT_VARIANT_UPDATED`
  - `PRODUCT_VARIANT_DELETED`
```

#### [DatoCMS](https://www.datocms.com/)

- Fields are autocompleted after you provide a full-access [API token (Content Management API)](https://www.datocms.com/docs/content-management-api/authentication).
- Entries will be created with IDs generated by DatoCMS. You should set the variant ID field to be unique.
- Bulk sync operations will be rate-limited by DatoCMS client itself.
- All fields must be the type of `string/text`, except `channels`, which should be type `json`.

#### [Strapi](https://strapi.io/)

- Fields are not autocompleted. You must provide an auth token with full access to the product variant entity and API base URL (without `/api` suffix).
- Item type must be plural, eg, `saleor-products` instead `saleor-product`.
- All fields must be the type of `string/text`, except `channels`, which should be type `json`.

#### [Builder.io](https://www.builder.io/)

- Fields are not autocompleted. You must ensure mapping is correct.
- Builder.io doesn't support unique constraints on fields - hence the app will not guarantee that duplicates will not be created.

## General limitations and known issues

> - App is unidirectional. Changes in CMS will not be reflected in Saleor.

Reviewer: **question**: We have the same point in the "Assumptions" section. Is that expected?

---
title: CMS
sidebar_position: 4
---

# CMS

:::note V2 version
This document describes the v2 version of the app. The v1 version is deprecated and will be removed in the future.
:::

## Overview

_CMS_ is a Saleor app that allows one-direction synchronization of Saleor products into supported CMS platforms. Here are the currently available platforms:

- [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/)
- [Strapi](https://strapi.io/)
- [DatoCMS](https://www.datocms.com/)
- [Builder.io](https://www.builder.io/)

:::note Missing integrations?

> We listen to the community's voice. Let us know if you miss any integration by [filling out a survey](https://saleor.typeform.com/to/ecR2msLk?typeform-source=apps.staging.saleor.io)

Reviewer: typo: missing dot

```suggestion
We listen to the community's voice. Let us know if you miss any integration by [filling out a survey](https://saleor.typeform.com/to/ecR2msLk?typeform-source=apps.staging.saleor.io).
```
